add an AI contributions policy (#6141)
PyO3/pyo3: Contributing.md

Please join in with any part of PyO3 which interests you. We use GitHub issues to record all bugs and ideas. Feel free to request an issue to be assigned to you if you want to work on it.

You can browse the API of the non-public parts of PyO3 [here](https://pyo3.rs/internal/doc/pyo3/index.html).

The following sections also contain specific ideas on where to start contributing to PyO3.

## AI Contributions

> We expect contributors using AI tools to respect the human effort required to handle contributions.

Author: ```suggestion
We expect contributors using AI to respect the human effort required to handle contributions.
```

As an example, AI-generated code is typically highly verbose (as of mid 2026), so after generating code with AI please consider simplifying comments and code to aid with future readability and maintainability.
We prefer that authors disclose if code is generated by AI so we can take that into account in review without guesswork.

Any contribution which looks like it was produced by AI without sufficient human effort to ensure its quality may be closed at the PyO3 maintainers' discretion.
We will take into consideration (non-exhaustively) factors such as the size of the contribution and whether the GitHub account looks like it is engaging in widespread automated contributions.

We note that many have strong opinions on the use of AI, and the technical and social landscape is changing rapidly.
As a project PyO3 does not take a position on AI and its merits or issues; we accept that AI is a reality of current software development and wish to prioritise here the best outcomes for the PyO3 community.

> This policy may be updated in the future to reflect coventions in the open source ecosystem as they evolve.

Author: ```suggestion
This policy may be updated in the future to reflect conventions in the open source ecosystem as they evolve.
```

Please join in with any part of PyO3 which interests you. We use GitHub issues to record all bugs and ideas. Feel free to request an issue to be assigned to you if you want to work on it.

You can browse the API of the non-public parts of PyO3 [here](https://pyo3.rs/internal/doc/pyo3/index.html).

The following sections also contain specific ideas on where to start contributing to PyO3.

## AI Contributions

In alignment with our [Code of Conduct] we expect contributors using AI to respect the impact of their contributions on the PyO3 community.
This applies to pull requests, issues, comments, discussions, and any other interaction with the community.

> See other projects such as FastAPI which describes "Human Effort Denial of Service" and LLVM's discussion of "Extractive Contributions".

Reviewer: Can you add links to "human effort denial of service" and "extractive contributions"?

Author: Done in 513e171 👍

We note that many have strong opinions on the use of AI, and the technical and social landscape is changing rapidly.
As a project PyO3 does not take a position on AI and its merits or issues; we accept that AI is a reality of current software development and wish to prioritise here the best outcomes for the PyO3 community.

Please abide by the following guidelines for AI contributions:

> - Do not submit raw AI contributions; you may freely use AI to assist your reasoning so long as you communicate in your own words any contribution you make to the project.

Reviewer: This could be misunderstood as "you can use ai to write your communication as long as you add some touches so it looks like a human wrote it". This reminds me of https://blog.rust-lang.org/2026/03/20/rust-challenges/ where it was originally LLM generated and then edited but still had llm "vibes".

```suggestion
- Do not submit raw AI contributions; you have to be able to explain and reason about any contribution you make to the project.
```

Author: Done in 513e171 👍
